.TH VIMVRC 5 "May 2017" Linux vimiv
.SH NAME
.PP
vimivrc \- configuration files for the vimiv image viewer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
/etc/vimiv/vimivrc, $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/vimiv/vimivrc, ~/.vimiv/vimivrc
.PP
/etc/vimiv/keys.conf, $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/vimiv/keys.conf, ~/.vimiv/keys.conf
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Vimiv is configured via two files:
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
the vimivrc for basic configuration
.IP \(bu 2
the keys.conf for keybindings
.RE
.PP
Per default these files are installed to /etc/vimiv/. It is considered best
practice to copy them to $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/vimiv/ and configure the copied files.
.PP
More information in a nicer format is available at:
.PP
\[la]http://karlch.github.io/vimiv/documentation/configuration/\[ra]
.SH SETTINGS
.PP
Settings are configured in the vimivrc file. This file is separated into three
sections:
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
GENERAL
.IP \(bu 2
LIBRARY
.IP \(bu 2
ALIASES
.RE
.PP
The first two sections group settings, the third is used to define aliases. What
each setting means and what values are possible is explained below:
.SS GENERAL
.TP
\fB\fCstart_fullscreen\fR, \fB\fCBool\fR
If yes, start fullscreen.
.TP
\fB\fCstart_slideshow\fR, \fB\fCBool\fR
If yes, start slideshow at startup.
.TP
\fB\fCslideshow_delay\fR, \fB\fCFloat\fR
Specify the delay for the slideshow.
.TP
\fB\fCshuffle\fR, \fB\fCBool\fR
If yes, shuffle the images in the filelist randomly.
.TP
\fB\fCdisplay_bar\fR, \fB\fCBool\fR
If yes, show the statusbar at the bottom. Else hide it.Note that error messages are still displayed, even if the statusbar is hidden.
.TP
\fB\fCdefault_thumbsize\fR, \fB\fCTuple\fR
Size for the thumbnails in the form of (x, y).
.TP
\fB\fCgeometry\fR, \fB\fCString\fR
String in the form of "WIDTHxHEIGHT" specifying the default size for the window. Note that not all window managers respect this setting.
.TP
\fB\fCrecursive\fR, \fB\fCBool\fR
If yes, search the given directory recursively for images at startup.
.TP
\fB\fCrescale_svg\fR, \fB\fCBool\fR
If yes, rescale vector graphics automatically by reloading the image. Otherwise simply zoom as if they were a normal image.
.TP
\fB\fCoverzoom\fR, \fB\fCFloat\fR
Float defining the maximum amount to scale images up by trying to fit the window.
.TP
\fB\fCsearch_case_sensitive\fR, \fB\fCBool\fR
If yes, search case sensitively. Ignore case otherwise.
.TP
\fB\fCincsearch\fR, \fB\fCBool\fR
If yes, search incrementally when typing.
.TP
\fB\fCcopy_to_primary\fR, \fB\fCBool\fR
If yes, copy to primary selection instead of clipboard.
.TP
\fB\fCcommandline_padding\fR, \fB\fCInt\fR
Padding to use in the command line and statusbar.
.TP
\fB\fCthumb_padding\fR, \fB\fCInt\fR
Padding to use between thumbnails. Note: Additionally to the padding column spacing gets updated dynamically to best fit the current window width.
.TP
\fB\fCcompletion_height\fR, \fB\fCInt\fR
Height of the completion menu when showing command line completions.
.TP
\fB\fCautoplay_gifs\fR, \fB\fCBool\fR
If yes, automatically start playing an animated gif when the file is opened.
.SS LIBRARY
.TP
\fB\fCshow_library\fR, \fB\fCBool\fR
If yes, always show library at start\-up.
.TP
\fB\fClibrary_width\fR, \fB\fCInt\fR
Default width of the library when an image is open.
.TP
\fB\fCexpand_lib\fR, \fB\fCBool\fR
If yes, automatically expand the library to full window size if no image is open.
.TP
\fB\fCborder_width\fR, \fB\fCInt\fR
Width of the border separating library and image.
.TP
\fB\fCmarkup\fR, \fB\fCString\fR
Markup used to highlight search results. This must be a correct markup opening in the form of one <span ...> element as it gets closed with </span>
.TP
\fB\fCshow_hidden\fR, \fB\fCBool\fR
If yes, show hidden files in the library and open hidden images.
.TP
\fB\fCdesktop_start_dir\fR, \fB\fCString\fR
The directory in which vimiv should start if opened via the .desktop file.
.TP
\fB\fCfile_check_amount\fR, \fB\fCInt\fR
The amount of files vimiv should check in a directory for whether they are images or not. This affects the size column of directories in the library. As soon as this number is reached, checks are stopped and a + is appended, e.g. 30+. A higher number increases precision and information at the cost of speed.
.TP
\fB\fCtilde_in_statusbar\fR, \fB\fCBool\fR
If yes, collapse $HOME to ~ in the statusbar in the library.
.SS ALIASES
.PP
It is possible to configure aliases for the command line in this section.
An alias is defined in the form of:
.PP
aliasname: command
.PP
See also: the alias command.
.SH KEYBINDINGS
.PP
Keybindings are defined in the keys.conf file. Similar
to the vimivrc, this file is split up into sections:
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
IMAGE: Keybindings defined here apply in image mode.
.IP \(bu 2
THUMBNAIL: Keybindings defined here apply in thumbnail mode.
.IP \(bu 2
LIBRARY: Keybindings defined here apply in library mode.
.IP \(bu 2
MANIPULATE: Keybindings defined here apply in manipulate mode.
.IP \(bu 2
COMMAND: Keybindings defined here apply in the command line.
.RE
.PP
Keybindings are defined in the form of:
.PP
keyname: command [arguments]
.PP
keyname has to be a valid key symbol like "a" or "b", but
also e.g. "colon" for ":". A useful tool in X to check for these names
interactively is \fB\fCxev\fR\&.
.PP
Supported modifiers are:
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
Shift via Shift+keyname
.IP \(bu 2
Control via 
.IP \(bu 2
Alt via Alt+keyname
.RE
.PP
command [arguments] has to be a valid vimiv
command with correct arguments. For a complete list of commands with
explanations check
the commands
documentation.
.PP
Mouse bindings are defined in the same form. Simply use "Button" and the
corresponding number like "Button1" as keyname.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
\fB\fCaccept_changes\fR
Accept changes made in manipulate.
.TP
\fB\fCalias\fR
Add an alias for a command.
.TP
\fB\fCautorotate\fR
Rotate all images in the current filelist according to exif data.
.TP
\fB\fCcenter\fR
Scroll to the center of the image.
.TP
\fB\fCcopy_abspath\fR
Copy the absolute path of the currently selected file to the clipboard.
.TP
\fB\fCcopy_basename\fR
Copy the base name of the currently selected file to the clipboard.
.TP
\fB\fCdelete\fR
Delete the current image.
.TP
\fB\fCdiscard_changes\fR
Discard any changes made in manipulate mode and leave it.
.TP
\fB\fCfirst\fR
Move to the first image of the filelist in image/thumbnail mode.
.TP
\fB\fCfirst_lib\fR
Move to the first file of the filelist in the library.
.TP
\fB\fCfit\fR
Fit the image to the current window size.. 
.TP
\fB\fCfit_horiz\fR
Fit the image horizontally to the current window size. 
.TP
\fB\fCfit_vert\fR
Fit the image vertically to the current window size. 
.TP
\fB\fCflip\fR
Flip the current image.
.TP
\fB\fCfocus_library\fR
Focus the library.
.TP
\fB\fCformat\fR
Format all currently open filenames.
.TP
\fB\fCfullscreen\fR
Toggle fullscreen mode.
.TP
\fB\fCgrow_lib\fR
Increase the library width.
.TP
\fB\fClast\fR
Move to the last image of the filelist in image/thumbnail mode.
.TP
\fB\fClast_lib\fR
Move to the last file of the filelist in the library.
.TP
\fB\fClibrary\fR
Toggle the library.
.TP
\fB\fCmanipulate\fR
Enter manipulate mode.
.TP
\fB\fCmark\fR
Mark the currently selected image.
.TP
\fB\fCmark_all\fR
Mark all images in the current filelist.
.TP
\fB\fCmark_between\fR
Mark all images between the last two marked images.
.TP
\fB\fCmark_toggle\fR
Toggle the current mark status.
.TP
\fB\fCmove_up\fR
Move up one directory in the library.
.TP
\fB\fCnext\fR
Move to the next image in the filelist of image mode.
.TP
\fB\fCnext!\fR
Force moving to the next image in the filelist of image mode.
.TP
\fB\fCprev\fR
Move to the previous image in the filelist of image mode.
.TP
\fB\fCprev!\fR
Force moving to the previous image in the filelist of image mode.
.TP
\fB\fCq\fR
Quit vimiv.
.TP
\fB\fCq!\fR
Force quitting vimiv.
.TP
\fB\fCreload_lib\fR
Reload the library.
.TP
\fB\fCrotate\fR
Rotate the image counter\-clockwise.
.TP
\fB\fCset animation!\fR
Toggle the animation status of animated Gifs.
.TP
\fB\fCset brightness\fR
Set the brightness of the current image.
.TP
\fB\fCset clipboard!\fR
Toggle the copy_to_primary setting.
.TP
\fB\fCset contrast\fR
Set the contrast of the current image.
.TP
\fB\fCset library_width\fR
Set the library width.
.TP
\fB\fCset overzoom\fR
Set the overzoom setting.
.TP
\fB\fCset rescale_svg!\fR
Toggle the rescale_svg setting.
.TP
\fB\fCset sharpness\fR
Set the sharpness of the current image.
.TP
\fB\fCset show_hidden!\fR
Toggle the show_hidden setting.
.TP
\fB\fCset slideshow_delay\fR
Set the slideshow delay.
.TP
\fB\fCset statusbar!\fR
Toggle the statusbar.
.TP
\fB\fCshrink_lib\fR
Decrease the library width.
.TP
\fB\fCslideshow\fR
Toggle the slideshow.
.TP
\fB\fCslideshow_delay\fR
Change the value of the slideshow delay.
.TP
\fB\fCtag_write\fR
Write the names of all currently marked images to a tagfile.
.TP
\fB\fCtag_load\fR
Load all images in a tagfile into image mode.
.TP
\fB\fCtag_remove\fR
Delete a tagfile.
.TP
\fB\fCthumbnail\fR
Toggle thumbnail mode.
.TP
\fB\fCundelete\fR
Undelete an image.
.TP
\fB\fCunfocus_library\fR
Focus the widget last focused before the library.
.TP
\fB\fCversion\fR
Display pop\-up with version information.
.TP
\fB\fCzoom_in\fR
Zoom in.
.TP
\fB\fCzoom_out\fR
Zoom out.
.TP
\fB\fCzoom_to\fR
Zoom image to a given percentage.
.SH HIDDEN COMMANDS
.PP
The following commands can only be bound to keys and are not accessible from the
command line.
.TP
\fB\fCclear_status\fR
Clear any numbers or messages from the statusbar and reset search.
.TP
\fB\fCcommand\fR
Enter the command line.
.TP
\fB\fCscroll\fR
Scroll image or thumbnail.
.TP
\fB\fCscroll_lib\fR
Scroll the library.
.TP
\fB\fCsearch\fR
Search for text in the current filelist.
.TP
\fB\fCsearch_next\fR
Navigate to the next search result.
.TP
\fB\fCsearch_prev\fR
Navigate to the previous search result.
.TP
\fB\fChistory_down\fR
Go down by one in command history.
.TP
\fB\fChistory_up\fR
Go up by one in command history.
.TP
\fB\fCdiscard_command\fR
Leave the command line discarding currently entered text.
.TP
\fB\fCcomplete\fR
Start command line completion.
.TP
\fB\fCcomplete_inverse\fR
Start command line completion selecting items inversely.
.TP
\fB\fCslider\fR
Change the value of the currently focused slider.
.TP
\fB\fCfocus_slider\fR
Focus one of the manipulate sliders.
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR vimiv (1), 
.BR date (1)
